Israel Hamas and the mediators haven't
said anything specific in their
discussions about a possible ceasefire
but the broad proposal is believed to be
based on those three stage processes
that Charles just mentioned the first
phase would be that six we ceasefire
during which Hamas would release women
and elderly uh and wounded captives in
exchange for Palestinian held prisoners
in Israeli prisons the second phase
would include a permanent end to the
hostilities and release of all remaining
Israeli captives and third phase would
be that reconstruction of Gaza and the
return of the remains of any deceased
captives to Israel let's bring in Tamar
Kut who's a conflict resolution
specialist and an assistant professor of
public policy at doart Institute for
Graduate Studies joins us live now from
Belgrade in CIA good to have you with us
again Mr kmut on the program can we just
talk about these technical teams that
the Israelis are sending to Doha I mean
we've seen this scenario happened before
but it doesn't really mean that there'll
be any breakthrough in negotiations
because we don't really have or we're
not privy to that information it's just
yet one more um stage in the process to
getting to the you might say the
conclusion of what both sides
want yes um exactly so yes we have been
there before and previous rounds of
negotiations have failed
miserably and um um I'm pretty not sure
what's the the the the new developments
or the new you urge especially for Natan
because he feels he's
impune uh uh that would enable such
developments that would enable this
round to succeed as well because as we
talk as we talk people are dying and
dying in big numbers I mean as the war
continues in Raza so just imagining that
these negotiations might take weeks to
materialize it's a horrifying idea given
uh the the the miserable and the
genocidal crime that we see being aired
on TV now uh so I'm I'm I'm really not
sure and and and I'm quite pessimistic
because as we talk also we have been
hearing that there there are
disagreements between Nat and his
Minister of
Defense also over the deal as well uh so
I think I think uh let's wait and see I
mean there's so many unknown factors for
us and uh we have to know what's what's
there okay let's let's UNP pick it a
little bit more because these talks are
going on behind closed doors Israel is
making very public through its prime
minister what its red lines are are
those red lines realistic now in terms
of the pressure that's being applied we
think by Washington on Tel Aviv over
getting to a
ceasefire well I mean if if the pressure
really exists and that's an assumption I
mean so far I mean I I feel this is I
mean in my opinion in my opinion that
this is kind of the last Push by the
Biden Administration and then after this
push if things don't work the Americans
will be fully busy with their elections
and the Gaza war will not be will be a
secondary priority or a third priority
for them uh so but again the devil is in
the details because natany is has been
there before and he has sabotage many of
these uh negotiation deals so it really
for me if this round is to succeed I
think it needs an American a real and a
sincere American pressure and some
deadlines by
Washington I hope the Americans are
there but I'm not sure yet yeah I think
it's a wait and see at the moment
there's a bit of a holding pattern to
see what happens as these talks finish
in Doha for the moment T Kut thanks for
joining us